BOHEMIAN SOCIETY.

             "She was not fair,
     Nor beautiful,--those words express her not,
     But, O, her looks had something excellent
               That wants a name."


In a country house near the city of B---- lived a lady of cultivated
mind and manners, "a noble woman nobly planned." Well read and familiar
with such writers as Tyndall, Huxley, Spencer and other scientists, and
being rather cosmopolitan in tastes, liked to gather about her, people
who had--as she termed it--_ideas_. At times there was a strange medley
of artists, authors, religious enthusiasts, spiritualists,
philanthropists and even philosophers. On the evening of which I write
there was the usual peculiar gathering, and each one is expressing his
or her views freely and unrestrainedly.

       *       *       *       *       *

The visionary and dreamer said: "Let me describe a modern Utopia of
which I have often dreamed and thought.

In a fertile valley, surrounded on all sides by high mountains, lived a
community or body of people who had never been outside the valley. To
them the mountains proved an impassible barrier and they had no wish or
desire to penetrate beyond. For generations they had lived in this
peaceful retreat happy and content. The ground yielded sufficient for
their wants and needs. No one in this little world was richer than his
neighbor and if one of the community fell ill each contributed something
from their own supply for his or her support. They knew nothing about
the value of money, for here it was useless. No one dreamed of
possessing more than his neighbor, but each and all must share alike.
Time dealt kindly with these simple people, for they dealt kindly with
time, and life flowed on smoothly and pleasantly. Men and women of
seventy years were hale and hearty, for it is not so much the _number_
of years we live that leave their traces, as the events which transpire
in those years; each event, each sorrow, each disappointment making an
era and each one leaving a trace. For the inhabitants of the valley
there were few disappointments and fewer sorrows. If the angel of death
entered and took one of their number, each and all took the sorrow home
for it was looked upon as a personal calamity when any one of the little
community was taken from them.

The sun seemed to shine brighter, the water to be clearer and more
limpid, the foliage more brilliant in this little world than elsewhere.
Perhaps because the eyes of the people were undimmed by sorrow, perhaps
because their souls were unclouded by sin, or perchance they were in
complete harmony with nature and were able to see all her beauty, each
charm enhanced by something within themselves.

Nowhere else did the earth yield such abundant harvest. The wheat bent
its yellow head from over weight. The trees were laden with fruit and
here again nature seemed to be in sympathy with her children. No sordid
motives, no love of gain, no thought of barter and sale entered their
minds while sowing their fields or reaping their grain, but every one
labored that each and all might be benefitted. The men were strong and
self-reliant, the women contented and happy, the children rosy and
healthy.

Every Sabbath morning the old church bell rang a sweet summons to meet
together to worship God. One church was sufficient for all. They knew
nothing about heresies and schisms but assembled together to hear a
simple story simply told. The venerable clergyman, with white hair and
beard, in the dimly lighted church resembled the pictures of the
martyrs, his face telling the story of a simple, true, pure life. His
sermons were eloquent from their very simplicity; no need there of
learned dissertations, for the people would not have comprehended had he
been able to give them, and had they been able to understand, their
pastor was unable to teach. It was a pleasant sight, the old men, young
maidens, happy matrons and rosy children assembled together in their
quaint old fashioned dress, simple in the extreme, listening to the
teaching of their minister.

Their amusement and pleasures were simple with no unnatural craving
after excitement. The ever changing sky and clouds; the mists on the
mountain top; the purple hills and yellow waving grain; the running
brook; all these were sources of pleasure and amusement. To a few, the
world out side the valley, the numerous conjectures as to the people who
inhabited it, gave food for thought.

At eventide the sun is setting, throwing a golden glow over the valley,
from a cottage near is heard the cradle song of some happy mother
lulling her child to sleep; in the distance can be heard the tinkling
cow bell, and on the purple hill side the sheep have lain down to rest.
The sun has gone down a little lower and the shadows of the mountains
have lengthened until they stretch almost across the valley; the sounds
of life have almost ceased; the child is asleep and the lullaby ended;
the tinkling of the bells is scarcely heard; the birds have gone to
their nests, and up from the valley has risen a white mist that has
hidden and completely covered the last sign of life. Surely a beautiful
covering for such a valley, a fitting mantle for so pure a people.

       *       *       *       *       *

The morning broke dull and cloudy over the last happy day of the
peaceful valley.

A stranger from the outer world, about which they had speculated so
much, appeared in their midst. Seeking a number of young men he soon
engaged them in earnest conversation, arousing their curiosity by
telling them of the strange and wonderful things which transpired in the
world beyond the mountains; telling them of the wonderful discoveries of
science; the fame of many brilliant men and women, telling them of the
advantages of communication with the outer world, of the uselessness and
folly of spending their lives in so simple a manner, ridiculing their
simplicity, telling them that the mere youths of his country could teach
the venerable grandsires of the valley things of which they had never
dreamed, telling of the advantages of extended thought and education.
After many days spent in persuasion, he gained the consent of some to
erect a large college which was immediately begun. Some of the older
ones shook their heads and asked each other the question, "Were we not
happy? What more can be required?" Thus the first seeds of discord were
sown where all had been harmony. Laborers came from afar to aid in the
erection of the college, and day by day the work progressed and children
stood and gazed in open-eyed wonder at the place where they were to gain
a world of information. The work was finished; teachers came from
foreign lands, masters of languages, teachers of science, and
metaphysicians to puzzle the heads of the old and weary the brain of the
young. Teachers of music with massive organs for the music rooms of the
college arrived, teachers of piano and harp, all of which were a
revelation to these simple people, who could not conceive of any sweeter
music than the song of the birds, their mothers evening hymn or the soft
sweet notes of the happy wife as she crooned her babe to sleep. The
children were sent to the college and and in a short time the strife
began, each one trying to excel the other. No more time to study the
effect of the misty mountain tops, no more time to listen to the songs
of the birds, for here within these four walls were to be found and
learned stranger things than they had ever thought of. After a few years
the youths who went to the old church could scarcely be recognized. The
same sweet welcome was given by the old church bell but how changed were
the people who assembled together! Where all had been love and faith
before, there was now doubt and discord. For had they not dabbled in
science? Some of the more learned ones even whispered that the old
clergyman should be replaced by a younger man, one more advanced in
culture and training. True his head was bent and very grey, his hands
shook and voice trembled and at times it was almost difficult to
understand him, his prayer was so weak and broken. But at the bed-side
of the sick he was always welcome, the infirmities of age were forgotten
there. For over half a century he had held himself in readiness to
attend the bedside of all who might call upon him to speak cheering,
hopeful words to the dying. But now our little community has become
educated and they are able to criticise. As we look around the church we
are lost in wonder as to what has come to the people. The older ones are
sadder and a spirit of unrest seems to have seized upon the middle aged,
while the very children have lost something of their charm.

In a short time factories and manufactories are running; clouds of smoke
ascend from the valley to the mountain top which had never been touched
by anything less pure than the rain from the cloud or the mists from the
valley below. Nature itself was making a silent protest against the
invasion of her solitude. The trees which had borne abundant fruit
before were barren now.

The older people shook their heads and attributed the cause to the
doubts and unbelief which had arisen in their lovely valley. The more
learned ones assigned the smoke from the factories to be the cause.
Death was of more frequent occurrence to the inhabitants than formerly.
This dread visitor came at rare intervals and to the very aged before
the advent of education and commerce. But now the little children and
youths were frequently stricken with strange diseases, which baffled all
skill.

And after a time enterprise steps in and a railroad is built, and with
it every vestige of the happy valley disappears. The old church is torn
down, and a new one of grand proportions and elaborate workmanship is
built on the old spot. The venerable head of the clergyman has lain low
for many a year, and in his place stands an eloquent divine, with all
the modern ideas, who, in trying to prove the doctrines of his church to
be the true faith, leaves the doctrine of Christianity out--and that too
has gone; buried beneath the ruins of the old church and in the grave of
the old clergyman.

Now let a person pass through the valley and they will look in vain for
a vestige of the once beautiful spot. There is a-hurrying to and fro. On
the faces of the young can be seen lines of care and thought. The
innocent faces and sweet manner of the young girls have given place to a
look of consciousness. The pretty, quaint dresses have gone and fashion
has sway. The quiet, dreamy look and manner of the young men has given
place to a worldly air. The mists which arise from the valley are mixed
with the foul smoke of the factories and engines, and where all was
peace and quietness; chaos reigns supreme.

       *       *       *       *       *

An enthusiast is saying:

Philanthropists in many ages and many lands have put forth great and
noble efforts for the benefit of mankind and as we advance in knowledge
and civilization the ways and means chosen have undergone many
modifications. It has dawned upon philanthropists that they must have
some knowledge of the religion of humanity before the change can be very
marked, in the lives of those they would assist. The religion of
humanity is the noblest, the grandest of all religions. It is the one
which our Saviour taught while on earth; the one which he taught his
disciples to follow; one which requires no trained intellect or
cultivated mind, but simply an understanding of the human heart, the
human mind, and human passions. In it there are no creeds to learn, no
dogmas to understand, but the simple lesson of "Do unto others as you
would they should do unto you," which is the foundation of genuine
religion. Phariseeism is the curse of modern times, "Stand aside for I
am holier than thou," is the spirit too often shown among--so
called--Christians. The teaching of our Saviour; his life and good words
mean little with many persons. The story of Mary Magdalen is simply a
story, and conveys nothing to their minds. A supplication from such a
one as she would meet with no return. The drawing of the skirts aside
for fear of contamination, the cold looks and averted gaze, prove that
at least, one noble lesson has been disregarded.

In the German town of Andernach there is a huge wooden image of the
Saviour on the cross. And this is the legend which all the simple
peasants believe.

"One stormy night a poor, sinful creature was wandering about the
streets with her babe in her arms, and she was hungry and cold, homeless
and friendless, and no one in Andernach would take her in. And when she
came to the crucifix, she sat down on a stone at the foot of the cross
and began to pray, and prayed till she fell asleep with her poor little
babe on her bosom. But she did not sleep long, for a bright light shone
full in her face, and when she opened her eyes she saw a pale man
standing before her. He was almost naked, and there was blood upon his
hands and body; and great tears stood in his beautiful eyes and his face
was like the face of the Saviour on the cross. Not a word did he speak,
but he looked at the woman compassionately, and gave her a loaf of
bread, and took the babe in his arms and kissed it."

No need to talk of spiritual things to people who are suffering from
hunger and cold. If the moral nature of the poor is to be reformed,
their surroundings must be improved. "The mind becomes that which it
contemplates." It would be impossible for any one surrounded by crime
and poverty to understand or be made to comprehend the loving kindness
of a God who placed them in such a condition and amidst such
surroundings. No one, unless they were fanatics, would think of
distributing religious tracts to the poor half starved ignorant portion
of a large city. The _human_ portion of their natures must be benefitted
before any great results in moral improvements can be attained. Commence
at the beginning. Teach them the laws of hygiene: teach them their duty,
not from any reward which they may expect in the next world, but for the
sake of right and the happiness it will afford them in this world.

I am often struck with the idea that the religion which is taught from
our pulpits frequently helps to nourish all that is most selfish in our
natures. We are taught that for every kind act we perform, we may expect
a reward hereafter. In worldly matters we would have a poor opinion of a
friend--or one calling herself such--who for every small act of kindness
shown us, was constantly thinking of the benefit she was to derive from
it. Why will the reasoning not apply to spiritual matters? Such teaching
develops all that is lowest in human nature. And again we are told that
by doing certain things which are sinful in the sight of God, we may
expect punishment hereafter; consequently many people are deterred from
wrong doing, simply from fear; not because of any inner consciousness of
wrong doing, but for fear of the consequences of their sin. Would it not
be well to teach and train the human mind to the belief that any act
committed which is injurious to ourselves or our fellow creatures is
wrong, because the act in itself is wrong and not because we are to be
punished in the future.

Imagine a prisoner, a dangerous character, who conducts himself properly
while under the eye of the keeper and in sight of the lash, compelled by
fear to conform to rules, does the work appointed him, not from a
consciousness of doing right, not because the doing right is a pleasure,
but through fear of the consequences if he disobeys. He serves his time,
is discharged, but what kind of a citizen does he become? If fear only
restrains him from wrong-doing what object will he have in doing right?
Leave out the doctrine of reward and punishment, teach and train the
mind to something higher and holier than mere personal gratification.
The religion of humanity is a grand, a noble belief. To remember that
each and every one has some claim to consideration, that the way to
restrain from wrong-doing is through the human heart. A warm hand clasp
and a sympathetic tear will do more to strengthen ones belief in heaven
than all the tracts which were ever written. Can we believe in the
goodness and loving kindness of God, when we see nothing but coldness
and selfishness in our fellow creatures. Ah believe me, the chords of
the human heart are very tender and if touched by a sympathetic hand
will produce sweet sounds but if touched by the unfriendly hand of
coldness and indifference, the sounds will be harsh and discordant.
There is no one so low, so ignorant, so fallen, but has claims upon our
sympathies. The Turks collect every scrap of paper that comes in their
way, because the name of God may be written upon it. Deal tenderly with
every fellow creature, for all are made in the image of God. A few kind
words have saved many lives from shipwreck. Phariseeism says to itself
after hearing of the sin of some poor mortal "I am holier than that
person. I have never sinned in that way," forgetful of the fact that
they have never been tempted in the same way. The religion of humanity
says "here is a poor mortal who has been sorely tried and tempted, we
will show him his error and help him to do right." Phariseeism sends to
the boy who has been arrested for stealing a loaf of bread, a tract with
"Thou shall not steal" in large letters. The religion of humanity says,
"the boy was hungry and we will feed him." Phariseeism says to the poor
shivering outcast, "the Lord chastiseth those whom he loveth." The
religion of humanity takes her in and clothes, feeds and warms her. To
the poor woman who is struggling for daily bread, each day sadder than
the last, Phariseeism says, "bear thy burdens meekly." The religion of
humanity says, "we will do something to lighten her sorrow."

Phariseeism sees nothing to condemn in itself, forgetful that the sins
they are committing may be greater in the sight of God than the sins
which they are condemning in others.

I have often thought if a magician would wave his magic wand over a pool
of water so that, not only the features but the mind, the motives, the
passions were reflected, what consternation it would produce in the
minds of the Pharisee.

O be charitable even as Christ was to the sins of humanity, be
sympathetic even as He was to the sufferings of mankind; be kind even as
He was to the poor; be merciful even as He was to erring women, speak
comforting words even as He did to the weak hearted; speak cheerful
words even as He did to the weary and sad.

     Who ne'er his bread in sorrow ate
       Who ne'er the mournful midnight hours
     Weeping upon his bed has sate
       He knows you not, ye Heavenly Powers.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

Again the voice of the dreamer is heard. Let us, from a slight
elevation, watch the busy life of a large city. At early morning can be
heard the rattling of the carts and the merry whistle of the
drivers--the red-faced market woman is arranging fruit temptingly in
front of her stall; the shopman in a small street is lowering shutters
from his windows; the little old wizened woman has seated herself on the
curb stone with a small supply of apples and candy; the one armed beggar
has taken his accustomed place; the shop girls are hurrying to their
places behind the counters, the brawny workman with muscles of iron,
strides along to his days labor, and all the work-a-day world is alert.
A little later on the business portion of the city is abroad, the banker
is being driven to his counting house, the wealthy shop keeper hurries
to his place of business, and farther on the little flower girl with
fresh violets, still wet with dew, can be seen with her basket, offering
to the passers by the sweet contents. Now the great city is thoroughly
awake. The miser and the beggar jostle each other on the crowded
pavement, the little children are taken out for their morning airing by
the white-capped nurse, a black robed nun glides along on some errand of
mercy, with a face like a mediæval saint, jostling her as he passes can
be seen the excited face of the gambler who has staked his all and lost,
and again another flower-girl bearing her bright burden, now seen and
again lost sight of, looks like a bright humming bird as she flits
along, moving hither and thither in this strange medley of human beings.
A group has gathered around some Italian street musicians; little ragged
urchins are dancing in time to a merry waltz, and now the tune changes
from gay to grave. Watch the expression of the dark-eyed harpist while
he plays, surely his thoughts have flown to his sunny Italy, so sad, so
dreamy is his look. Even this picturesque looking street musician may
have a romance and may be dreaming at this moment of some sweet voiced
Italian maiden.

Later in the day all the fashionable world is astir. Elegant carriages
with gaily dressed occupants are dashing along. There is a carriage with
the paint scarcely yet dry and seated within is a red-faced vulgar
looking woman, the carriage, the horses, the woman, all painfully--_new_.
At the same time hurrying along in shabby dress and mean attire is a
fragile delicate woman whose garb shows evidences of much mending and
patient darning, but the shabby dress cannot hide the fact that here is
a _lady_, as with easy grace she moves down the street.

The afternoon is somewhat advanced and the occasional glimpses which we
get of the flower girl show that her basket has been replenished but she
does not move quite so quickly as in the morning. Her limbs are getting
weary, and there is a pathetic little note in her voice now as she
offers her flowers for sale.

But see! on the bridge is the figure of a woman. No need to hear her
history, the face tells its own story of sin and misery. She is looking
down at the river which flows sluggishly on; down perhaps at her own
reflection in the water, down perhaps deeper still into her own soul.
The face is hardened and set and there is scarcely a trace of womanly
likeness left. A life of sin and shame has almost obliterated all that
is good in her nature, almost I say, for no one, no matter how low or
degraded, can be wholly bad. But here it is difficult to discern one
soft look, as she leans wearily over the railing of the bridge--a
silent, sad, sin-stained creature. Soon there is a sound of wheels and
gay laughter and a carriage rolls by, and there can be no mistaking the
nature and errand of the occupants. A young girl, with sweet, pure face,
all in white, with white flowers in her hair and carrying a bouquet of
white flowers in her hand, is being driven towards the church. Passing
the solitary woman on the bridge she picks a beautiful flower from the
bouquet she is carrying and tosses it at her feet, for she wishes to-day
to make all whom she sees as happy as herself. A little of the hard
look leaves the woman's face as she stoops to pick the flower.
Mechanically she follows the carriage, with stealthy steps and bated
breath she enters the church, choosing a dark corner where she will not
be observed, she sits listening to the clergyman as he proceeds with the
marriage rites and not until all is over and the lovely bride is passing
down the aisle on the arm of her husband, does she dare to raise her
eyes, and as she does so they meet the pure frank gaze of the lovely
girl who smiles in her face as she recognizes the woman to whom she
threw the flower.

The woman sits in her dark corner. Of what can she be thinking? Her head
is bowed and on her face is a look of agony. What a hell has arisen in
her breast! Her thoughts have wandered to her country home which she has
not seen for years.--To the time when she was as pure as the young girl,
who just pronounced her marriage vows; to the mother's blessing as she
saw her young daughter depart for the great city; to the early days when
she first arrived and worked honestly for her bread; to the pride she
felt over the first money she sent home to her old mother. Her thoughts
wandered back to the time when men and women turned to look at her fresh
rosy face on the street, wondering at her beauty which partook so
largely of the wild rose and mountain daisy. Could this be the same
woman, with the hardened face and form covered with rags? It seemed so
long ago. Then came the thoughts of striving with temptation, then the
promises made and broken, of ruin and shame, then of the long illness,
of dreadful poverty, and at last she sees herself as she is, a ruined,
homeless, sin-stained creature. Oh the misery, the agony! What hell can
be greater than this! While she is still sitting there the bell begins
to toll, and soon there is a procession moving slowly up the aisle and
four young boys are carrying a little coffin. It too is covered with
white flowers, placed there by loving hands. In the coffin is a little
waxen form almost covered with the same beautiful flowers.

The clergyman who had read the marriage ceremony, is now repeating the
last sad rites for the dead. Again they take up their burden and move
slowly down the aisle. As the coffin passes the woman, one of the white
flowers drops almost at her feet. She stoops reverently and picks it up;
almost hesitatingly as if afraid her touch will soil its purity, and
placing it tenderly by the side of the bridal flower she walks slowly
from the church. Watch her move along hurriedly, till she comes to a
narrow alley and stops in front of a wretched tenement house. Entering
quickly she passes up the rickety stairs and goes into a room where
there is a little child upon a wretched bed. Sickness and poverty have
almost finished their work. The child is sleeping and the woman steals
softly to the bed side and places the white flowers on its breast Even
as she does so the little creature smiles in its sleep. Perhaps the
happy smiling face of the lovely bride has visited it in its slumber,
or the spirit of the dead babe has come with the flowers, to take the
hand of the sick child and lead it "across the river."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

I hear the voice of the Pessimist.

Pessimism is increasing daily. Any person who takes time to think on the
subject can not fail to see that human misery is increasing. With all
the boasted advantages of civilization, it has failed to bring happiness
into the lives of the people. The more enlightened people become, the
more they will recognize the fact that knowledge does not bring
happiness. Scientific discoveries do not tend to lighten the load of
human misery. Since

         "Man's disobedience, and the fruit
     Of that forbidden tree whose mortal taste
     Brought death into the world--and all our woe."

sin has gone on increasing, consequently there has been more
unhappiness. People are asking themselves daily, "is life worth living,"
and most persons answer in the negative. Are there any who grasp the
prize for which they have struggled? If there are a few who succeed in
reaching to the height to which they aspire, they find happiness is just
as much beyond their reach as when they first started in their career.
In the middle ages the magicians who created monsters were haunted by
them forever after. We are all haunted by dreams and shadows. The dreams
of happiness and the shadows of disappointments. Looking back upon our
past and taking a retrospective glance at years gone by we find our
lives have been made up not of _great_ events--but of a succession of
disappointments. Each one is haunted by a phantom or ideal which they
are vainly striving to reach but seldom attain. The garden of hope seems
to bear well; we put forth our hands to reach the fruit and we find we
have only the ashes of Dead Hopes.

As Shelly says:

     "First our pleasures, die--and then
     Our hopes, and then our fears--and when
     These are dead, the debt is due
     Dust claims dust--and we die too."

It is bitter mockery to say that the man who struggles for daily bread
is happy. He may do his work uncomplainingly, but he cannot be happy. He
gets to be but little better that a machine and does his work
mechanically, perhaps never looking into his own heart, to ask the
question, "Is this a happy life?" Some writer has said that there are
two classes of people, those who are driven to death and those who are
bored to death. There can be no sympathy between the rich and poor.
There is an impassible gulf that can never be crossed. The man who has
never known the want of money cannot know the sorrows and struggles of
the poor. Each must go his own way, the poor man to his pallet of straw;
the rich man to his bed of down.

In the world of dreams all are equal. It is an unreal world, true, but
to many it is the happiest. In it there are no distinctions. The woman
who is old and wrinkled and gray, who has known nothing but hard work
and sorrow in this world, in the land of dreams finds pleasure she has
never known. In spirit, she is in pleasant places, carried back perhaps
to scenes she loved in childhood, to the old home; sees pleasant faces
of the almost forgotten dead, is carried above and beyond the world of
reality into the dim shadowy land of dreams. Then comes the waking, and
with the waking the regret of what "might have been."

In this land of dreams the rich may travel with the poor, may revisit
the same old scenes, see the same faces of the dead, leave all that is
"earth earthy," and the spirit or soul wander abroad, over land and seas
and in dreams kneel again at a mother's knee repeating the prayer she
taught and which has long since been forgotten, to awake with regret to
the cares which riches bring.

There is one more journey which the rich and the poor take together and
that is down and through the Valley of the Shadow of Death.

It is a curious study to watch the faces one meets in a large city or
town. Every face has a history, every life a story, if we but take the
trouble to read. The face is but an index of the heart, and even in the
heart of the happiest the "muffled drums are beating."

As Longfellow so beautifully expresses it in "Hyperion" "and then mark!
how amid the chorus of a hundred voices and a hundred instruments--of
flutes and drums, and trumpets--this unreal shout and whirlwind of the
vexed air, you can so clearly distinguish the melancholy vibration of a
single string touched by the finger--a mournful sobbing sound. Ah this
is indeed human life! where in the rushing noisy crowd, and sounds of
gladness, and a thousand mingling emotions, distinctly audible to the
ear of thought, are the pulsations of some melancholy string of the
heart, touched by an invisible hand."

An Optimist, a pleasant, sweet faced woman, with a voice like the chime
of silver bells, is saying:

"It is only to morbid and diseased minds that existence looks colorless.
People who live too much within themselves, whose imagination becomes
disordered see only the dark side of life. It was not intended that life
should be all sunshine and no shadow."

         "For life is one, and in its warp and woof,
     There runs a thread of gold that glitters fair,
     And sometimes in the pattern shows most sweet
     Where there are sombre colors."

Dark clouds must appear in the life of each, and one of the great
lessons of life is to learn to bear disappointments philosophically, not
sit down with folded hands and watch the clouds approaching until our
vision becomes obscured. There is sunshine in the lives of each and
every one if they will but see it, and banish vain regrets and useless
repinings. Inertia causes a vast deal of trouble.

     "Lose this day loitering, t'will be the same story
     To morrow, and the rest more dilatory
     The indecision brings its own delays.
     Are you in earnest? Seize this very minute!
     What you can do or think you can, begin it!
     Only engage, and then the mind grows heated.
     Begin it, and the work will be completed."

Fortunately the day of fine ladyism has passed and there are noble women
who are not afraid nor ashamed to take upon themselves the duties and
responsibilities of life, women who do their work well and faithfully,
duties that perhaps in themselves are not noble, but by the manner in
which they are done the work in itself is elevated. The common laborer
who does his work well and to the best of his ability is more to be
commended than the President who puts but half his energy in his duties.

What can be more pitiful than the apathy and utter uselessness of the
would-be fine lady who is _ennuied_ to the last degree; one perhaps with
good ability who is conscious of the fact that she is capable of
something better, would like to turn her attention to something useful,
but is restrained from doing so by the fear of what "society" will say.
Any society which is worth knowing will extend the right hand of
fellowship to the self-reliant noble woman, much more readily than to
the useless nonentity. Life to be pleasant must have an aim, an object,
and every one has been given some talent to make use of and for such he
or she must answer at "the last great day."

Life can not but be pleasant to those who make nature a study. There is
a vast book open before us and every one who chooses can open a page.
The study will never grow monotonous, for nature is constantly changing
and with lavish hand showers upon her children from her great store
house innumerable blessings, to those who "see books in running brooks,
sermons in stones and good in everything."

From the fern by the way side to the study of psychology--the most
fascinating of all studies--there is something in which all can interest
themselves, but more especially for women, for to me this seems woman's
kingdom. With much quicker perceptive faculties than men, they are
better able to see the finer more delicate portion of nature's handiwork
and mysteries. Unfortunately in small towns if a woman tries to
investigate spiritualism, she is immediately called a spiritualist. If
she takes an interest in mesmerism and psychology, she is called
visionary. If she takes an interest in the religious discussion of the
day, she is called an atheist. If she takes an interest in pathology she
is called _strong minded_, and who does not abhor the so-called strong
minded woman. A woman may be essentially womanly and take an interest in
all these things. Brain was given to woman for reason and investigation,
and "I rather choose to endure the wounds of those darts which envy
casteth at novelty, than to go on safely and sleepily in the easy ways
of ancient mistakings." Life cannot but be pleasant to those who are
fond of books, "our silent companions." They speak a language all their
own and we can find companionship for every mood, grave, gay, dreamy,
discursive, philosophical and scientific.

If you are a busy worker in a large city and wish a breath of country
air, a breeze from the meadow, a ramble along a country road, read
Whittier's "Among the Hills."

     "Pleasant it was when woods were green
       And winds were soft and low,
     To lie amid some sylvan scene
     Where shadows dark--and sunlight sheen,
       Alternate come and go."

If you are weary with brain work and seek repose, read Longfellow.

     "And the cares that infest the day,
     Shall fold their tents like the Arabs,
     And as silently steal away."

If in an heroic mood read Milton.

     "For with thee
     Certain my resolution is to die,
     How can I live without thee? how forgo
     Thy sweet converse, and love so dearly joined."

If fortune has smiled upon you and flattery falls sweet on your ear, and
you are in danger of forgetting the final end of all ambition read
"Grays Elegy."

     "Can storied urn, or animated bust
     Back to its mansion call the fleeting breath?
     Can honor's voice provoke the silent dust
     Or flattery sooth the dull cold ear of death?"

If you wish to be transported to the mystic cloud-land of fancy, read
Hawthorne.

"Sleeping or waking, we hear not the airy footsteps of the strange
things that almost happen. He knew not that a phantom of wealth had
thrown a golden hue upon its waters. Nor that one of death had
threatened to crimson them with his blood, all in the brief hour since
he lay down to sleep."

To a dreamy and poetic mind what can be more exquisite than these few
lines: "The next morning Hieronymus put the scroll into his bosom, and
went his way in search of the Fountain of Oblivion. A few days brought
him to the skirts of the Black forest. He entered, not without a feeling
of dread, that land of shadows, and passed onward under melancholy pines
and cedars, whose branches grew abroad and mingled together, and, as
they swayed up and down, filled the air with solemn twilight and a sound
of sorrow. As he advanced into the forest the waving moss hung, like
curtains, from the branches overhead, and more shut out the light of
heaven; and he knew the Fountain of Oblivion was not far off. Even then
the sound of falling waters was mingling with the roar of the pines
above him; and ere long he came to a river, moving in solemn majesty
through the forest, and falling with a dull, leaden sound into a
motionless stagnant lake, above which the branches of the forest met and
mingled, forming perpetual night. This was the Fountain of Oblivion.
Upon its brink the Student paused, and gazed into the dark waters with a
steadfast look. They were limpid waters dark with shadows only. And as
he gazed, he beheld, far down in their silent depths, dim and
ill-defined outlines, wavering to and fro, like the folds of a white
garment in the twilight. Then more distinct and permanent shapes
arose,--shapes familiar to his mind, yet forgotten and remembered
again, as the fragments of a dream; till at length, far, far below him
he beheld the great City of the Past, with silent marble streets, and
moss-grown walls, and spires uprising with a wave-like, flickering
motion. And, amid the crowd that thronged those streets he beheld faces
once familiar and dear to him; and heard sorrowful, sweet voices
singing, O' forget us not! forget us not!' and then the distant,
mournful sound of funeral bells, that were tolling below, in the City of
the Past."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

An artist is speaking:

A person may be a true artist, who has never made a stroke with a brush.
Any one who can blend colors harmoniously or produce effective contrasts
in dress, or even in so trivial a thing as fancy work, is an artist.
Again, one may _paint_ for years without the slightest knowledge of, or
taste for true art. In painting a portrait, something more is required
than the mere likeness, something besides pink and white prettiness.
Perhaps in two or three centuries an artist is born, one who in painting
a portrait produces almost a living, breathing creature; and is able by
his magic touch, to paint in the thoughts which flit through the brain;
the feelings which move the heart, and is able to read almost the very
soul.

Many years ago a poor struggling painter in an Italian studio, conceived
the idea of painting a picture of the Madonna. He shut his doors to
visitors in order to give full play to his imagination. Days and nights
were spent in dreaming and working, until he lost consciousness of the
outer world and only lived for his work, for this picture, he was sure
would make him famous. Days rolled into weeks and weeks into months, and
still the realization of his dream seemed as far off as when he first
began. The figure was standing with hands clasped and head bent in
humble submission to the Divine will; the graceful, easy repose of the
limbs, every curve and line was perfect. But the face! It seemed at
times as if he had accomplished the great task, yet the expression
always eluded his most earnest efforts, the heavenly expression of the
Divine mother was wanting. At last, after many failures and vain
efforts, it occurred to him to open his doors to visitors and perchance
he could catch the longed-for expression from the faces of the women who
might visit him. As soon as it was announced that the artist had opened
his doors, people came from neighboring towns and cities, attracted as
much by the desire to see the strange person whom they thought a
monomaniac, as by the wish to see the picture. Women of rank and fashion
arrived daily, and it was a curious study to watch the intent gaze which
he fixed upon them, hoping, praying, in each one to find the desired
expression. Occasionally he would request some beautiful woman to remain
standing in a certain attitude, when he fancied he had caught the look
for which he was striving, but it always proved unsatisfactory, for
often the stately robes covered an aching heart which told its story
very plainly on the canvass. Again a lovely girl would be asked to pose,
but here alas was disappointment, for oftentimes the face expressed
prettiness, but nothing more. Then again the canvass reflected the image
of some worldly-wise woman with selfishness stamped upon it. Again the
look of envy stared him in the face, or pride mocked at him while he
struggled vainly on. As the last resort a young mother and her child
were requested to favor him with a sitting. Here he thought "I shall
surely succeed." He worked steadily on and success seemed at last before
him. The last stroke of the brush had been made and stepping back to
view the work, his heart sank within him, for here he had succeeded in
catching the look of lovely maternity, with the expression of the
earthly mother imprinted thereon, but the combination of human love and
Divine motherhood was wanting.

Just at nightfall, sick at heart, weary and discouraged, he wandered
out into the streets, going on and on until he found himself in the
portion of the city inhabited by the very poor; passing an old church,
he was attracted toward it, scarcely knowing how or why. On entering the
door, he saw a woman dressed in rags, kneeling before the altar. The man
gazed in wonder and awe, for here amidst poverty and distress, he had
found the expression vainly sought after, for weeks and months. In the
face before him, there was no envy, hatred or selfishness, no vain glory
or hypocracy, but the resigned look of one who suffered but bowed,
meekly to the chastizement. At eventide, and alone, she had brought her
sufferings to the foot of the Cross.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

I hear the voice of the Cynic.

Friendship is a myth. In prosperity and sunshine you find yourself
surrounded by flatterers and so called friends, but let the waves of
adversity beat about and threaten to engulf you--then stretch forth
your hands for the friends you have known and you will find yourself
stranded and--alone. There may be a few timid, shrinking creatures who
feel they would like to give the right hand of fellowship, but popular
opinion and example prove too much for their weak natures and it is but
charity to let them go.

"There are times when we are even inclined to smile at our own misery,
but it is the smile which brings wrinkles instead of dimples."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

The Philosopher is saying:

"Time in its resistless onward sweep" has taught us many things; has
disabused our minds of many false ideas and erroneous views, has opened
a new world to the thinking mind--a world of thought. When God created
man he gave to him the divine instinct of reason, by which all persons,
high and low, rich and poor, can solve for herself and himself the great
problem of life. Very young children can only see objects that come
within easy range of their vision; they are in the world of instinct,
but after a time their vision becomes enlarged, they are able to see a
greater distance, and in the larger space; more to arrest the eye--then
comes consciousness. After consciousness--reason. The minds of many
adults are still in their infancy, only seeing in a small circle the
things by which they are surrounded and in close proximity. Others are
in a state of consciousness and nothing more. They live, they breath,
they have their being, but the great mysteries which surround them, the
wonderful problems of life, are as nothing to them. Then again there is
the mind that has reached the height of reason, and to that mind what a
vast world has opened before it. The wonderful works of an all-wise
Creator, the mysteries of nature that are so perplexing, are all open
for the investigation of the reasoning thinking mind.

"The venomous insect beneath our feet, and the noblest and best of our
domestic animals; the terrible forces of the earth, the tornado and
volcano; the gently murmuring spring and the boisterous ocean; the
forest monarch and the pale forget-me-not within its shade, are all
witnesses of a creative power."

From the animalculæ up to Gods noblest work, man, there is the evidence
of an all-ruling power and intelligence. Interwoven and interlined
through all nature's great mysteries there is the mark of an invisible
hand and all-seeing power, which rules and guides the universe.

     "That very law which moulds a tear
       And bids it trickle from its source,
     That law preserves the earth a sphere
       And guides the planets in their course."

It is by reason and investigation that we are permitted to partially
understand the strange mysteries of a wonderful world. Each one must
reason for himself or what better are they intellectually, than the
child who only sees and cannot understand? Had it not been for
investigation and reason, we would still have believed the earth to be
flat, and in the rising and setting of the sun.

There is a law governing all things. There is a connecting link between
earth, air and sea, between flowers, beasts and birds, between mankind
and all animals, and inanimate things, a mysterious joining of mind to
matter. It is an intangible something, perhaps an electrical current,
but certain it is that the line is there and unbroken, and between every
human creature whom God has made, there is the same unbroken chain,
which can be followed up link by link, step by step, until we find
ourselves on the boundaries of the next world and perhaps beyond; who
can tell? The chain may be unbroken even then.

What matters it if I do not believe?--perhaps because I do no not
understand your creeds, your dogmas. What matters it if I do not
interpret the working of Gods ways in the same manner which you do?

There is the same principle guiding us all, and we bow the head
reverently to the one God who "is the same yesterday, to day and
forever."

Nations, like individuals, pass through the usual form of youth,
manhood, old age, and decay. Religion, like nations and individuals,
passes through the regular gradation, first of infancy, when religious
ideas and thoughts are crude in the extreme; the age of Puritanism, when
innocent women and children are burned at the stake for witchcraft, when
with gloomy faces and in unsightly dress the poor fanatics sacrificed
every pleasure on the altar of duty; the time when Sunday was a day of
horror to children from its gloom, a day when every innocent amusement
was forbidden. After religion's infancy comes youth. At that stage, the
absurd dress and gloomy faces were not considered essential adjuncts to
religion, but free discussion was not allowed upon religious subjects.
Everything must be taken for granted, without any investigation on the
part of the people. After youth comes manhood, the time when reason has
full sway, when superstition and credulities form no part of religious
teaching and thought. People are able to think, to reason for
themselves. After the age of manhood, comes old age and that is the
stage of agnosticism. Questions are being asked, and ideas propounded
which must not be overlooked nor treated with contempt. All questions
asked in a fair spirit, must be answered in a fair manner. It is not
sufficient to say, "it is so", but good and tangible reasons must be
given to prove the truth of an assertion. We are now in the stage of
"old age." Agnosticism and Infidelity are wide spread. After old age
comes decay and the decline of the absolutely orthodox. From time
immemorial, every religion has passed through the same gradation, of
infancy, youth, old age and decay finally comes _philosophy_.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

A Swedenborgian is speaking:

Down by the sounding sea, in a lonely cottage, lives a woman, so
wrinkled, old and bent that even death seems to have forgotten her
existence. It would be difficult to imagine that once she was a beauty,
but true it is that many years ago no fresher, fairer maiden could be
found than this same strange old woman. Sixty years ago she had a sailor
lover, who loved her truly and well. On his return after every cruise it
was a sight to soften the heart of even the hardest, to witness the
joyful meeting, the lovers kiss, in which there was no shame, the tears
of joy in which there was no weakness; the heartfelt pleasure of two
honest hearts. But the partings were soon to be over, for after the next
voyage the young lovers were to be wedded. The simple wedding dress was
made and all was ready. With gay snatches of song, and merry feet the
young girl flitted about the house, impatiently waiting the day which
was to bring her lover. There was only one more day of waiting and
"to-morrow, to-morrow he comes," she sang. Early in the evening dark
clouds formed in the sky, the wind began to moan, the waves beat high
upon the shore, the murmuring winds changed to howling blasts, the waves
rolled mountains high, the spirits of the sea and air seemed to have
arisen in their fury, doors rattled, houses shook on their
foundations--and to-morrow came, but no lover. The wedding clothes were
laid away, and the day which was to have seen the young girl made a
happy wife, found her a heart-broken stricken woman; and now she must
take up her burden, and from month to month and year to year, carry this
leaden weight called a heart.

The years rolled by taking with them her girlish beauty, and leaving in
its place the wrinkles of time and sorrow. As time passed the idea took
possession of her that her lover would still come back. True the vessel
in which he sailed had been wrecked, but still there lingered the one
faint hope, and every night she lit the lamp and placed it in the
window as she had done in her youth, as the beacon light for the absent
love. As time passed she followed her father to the grave and in a short
time stood by the bed of her dying mother. And now she was alone in her
loneliness and desolation. Every year when the day came which was to
have been her wedding day, the white dress, which had grown yellow with
age, was taken out, folded and flowers scattered over it as carefully as
we would sprinkle flowers over a child's grave, for in the box in which
the garment lay, were buried all her hopes. Does it not seem strange
that one can live on year after year, with no hope, no joy; waken in the
morning with the thought that "here is another day to be passed over,"
another night with the sad dreams and gloomy awaking.

At the approach of a storm, when the clouds began to gather, the
solitary woman could be seen standing on the shore gazing long and
earnestly over the dark waters. But at last it was with difficulty that
she dragged herself to the beach and her hands trembled so that she
could scarcely light the lamp for the window, but she said to herself
"he will surely come," for if faith, hope and long suffering, if patient
waiting, prayers and longing have power to affect disembodied spirits,
my faith will surely be rewarded.

And now another year has passed and again the anniversary of the sad day
has dawned. With trembling, withered hands, she once more unfolds the
wedding dress. She must make one more visit to the shore, for she feels
it will be for the last time, as with slow uncertain steps she drags
herself along. And now as night approaches she is too ill to light the
lamp.

Neighbors miss the accustomed light, find the lonely woman too ill to
rise, and they know that in a few hours all will be over. They lit the
lamp to humor the whim of a dying woman. The winds began to moan
fitfully; the waves could be heard dashing on the shore, while the
lightning flashed and illuminated the room in which the woman lay. There
is something weird in the whole scene--the lighted lamp for the lover,
dead over half a century, the dying woman, the moaning wind, and the
sound of the waters. And now she is muttering in her dreams, and talking
to her lover, she has forgotten all the years that have passed, and is
bidding him a joyous welcome and while the storm is at its height, a
smile of tenderness has passed over the face of the old creature, making
her look almost young, when the door opens; a figure in a wet winding
sheet, with hair in which was mingled sea weed, glides to the bed-side,
a whispered utterance from the dying woman, "he has come," the figure
moves again to the door. An invisible power has extinguished the light,
and the flame of the lamp and the woman's soul, have gone out together,
while from the bedside to the door there is the trail of wet garments.

Again I hear the voice of the Cynic.

This is an age of shoddyism, and it is difficult at times to distinguish
the real from the sham. The woman who is covered with jewelry, looking
like a travelling doorplate, is the kind from whom we expect the bow to
vary, in coldness or cordiality, according to the clothes we wear, or
the entertainments we are able to give. With such people money means
everything, brains and breeding being secondary considerations. And it
is very amusing on meeting Madam Shoddy to note the look with which she
scans one from head to foot, balancing in her mind the cost of each
article of apparel, her mind wholly given up to dollars and cents, and
woe unto the person, who does not come up to the proper standard, of
pounds, shillings and pence.

In talking with such a one you will find their conversation frequently
interlarded with the use of the words _ladies_ and _gentlemen_. But
madam shoddy does really very little actual harm, all these things being
a harmless sort of imbecility.

But at the hands of Madam Snob, one will not fare as well, for having
nothing noble in her own nature she is constantly picking flaws in the
character of others. Madam Snob will entertain you with a long account
of her family connections. Poor soul she is constantly resurrecting the
remains of dead and gone ancestors; her life is spent in the charnel
house, being very careful however, to let the remains of a certain few
rest in peace, while she rattles the dry bones of her favored ones in
our face, until we are tempted to cry "peace." At last our curiosity is
aroused, and we make inquiries as to these noble ancestors, and find the
overwhelming fact--that they had been born! and that they had died! very
noble of them to have been born, and very heroic, to have died. If the
successors would follow their illustrious example in the last act, the
world would still exist. But you say "this is harmless and only another
form of idiocy." True if it stopped there, no harm would be done. But
did any one ever know Madam Snob to stop there? After having visited her
family vault, you are requested to enter the abode of your neighbor's
dead, and then your turn will come next and you are asked by madam to
unearth your dead. Now to people who know little and care less about
their great, great, great grandfather, all this is very amusing. If the
Bible be true, and who can doubt it? there was an ark built in which
God's chosen were placed for safety. Now any one is safe in saying "my
ancestry dates from the ark" but I think it would be rather difficult
for a person to trace their ancestry from the time the chosen few
stepped from the ark to dry land, down to the present time. But every
one has some imagination, and in order to gratify Madam Snob's
curiosity, just make use of it. Tell her some were hanged, some were
drowned, some were in prison for debt, one fought in the War of the
Roses, one was killed in a street brawl, another hanged for treason.
Tell her--well tell her anything that will satisfy her curiosity, for
there are times when an elastic conscience is excusable. There is
another Madam Snob, who not knowing in the slightest degree what
constitutes a lady, is ignorant of the fact that a lady is civil to
everyone; this madam is uncivil to her servants, but does not hesitate
to gossip with them, is careless, in speech and manner, in the presence
of inferiors, in fact is guided wholly in matters of civility by the
position in which the people are in, whom she is with; is constantly
talking of _society_, and turning up her aristocratic nose at
trades-people and in nine cases out of ten, her father was a cobbler, or
kept a peanut stand, neither of which would do her any harm, if she only
knew that "silence is golden." We say, _that_ is the lowest form of
_snob feminine_ and rarely met with.

There is another form of snobbery which is not so easily recognized, and
requires a good judge of human nature to detect. This Madam Snob is one
who should be a lady, for by education and good breeding she is entitled
to the name. Now, she really possess a good, kind heart, is kind to the
poor, tries to do her duty, but away down, under several layers of good
intentions, there is a little taint of snobbery, and she really has not
the moral courage to rid herself of it. This Mrs. Snob may have a large
circle of friends, but to each one she accords a different reception; to
all she is kind, remember, but you can judge of her opinion of different
ones, from the invitations which she issues. First in her estimation,
come the fashionable people, those she asks to her dinner parties; then
the people whose position in life is not very good, she asks to
luncheon; then at last, come those whom she really does not know how to
place, and they are the ones she asks to meet her alone.

Now this poor woman, for whom I have a degree of pity, not unmixed with
contempt, is in a constant struggle with herself, in her desire to do
what she thinks to be right, and at the same time, do everything that
her neighbors do, for she is bound hand and foot and dare not make an
independent move. But if Mrs. Fitznoodle were to do certain things, Mrs.
Fitzsnob would follow her example, and the people who are asked to meet
their hostess--alone, might find themselves seated around the mahogany
with Mr. and Mrs. Fitznoodle and daughters and a select circle of little
Noodles.

Again, Mrs. Fitznoodle, with several marriageable daughters, is
constantly on the lookout for unwary young men, ignoring the fact of
their want of brains, lack of breeding, and wholly regardless of the
fact that they have no "family" connections, but she spreads her net and
perhaps succeeds in catching this "eligible" young man. Mrs. Fitzsnob
immediately sees something in that young man to admire, and seeks his
acquaintance, and much to his surprise, and to the surprise of everyone
else, he finds himself for the first time in what is termed _good
society_. Now this Mrs. Fitzsnob is not a _rara avis_, but is frequently
met with. Yet how many ladies do we see? We meet many calling
themselves such, who do not hesitate to talk scandal, to injure their
neighbors; to ridicule people, to accept of hospitality and comment
ill-naturedly upon it, to talk slang. All these things and more, people
do who call themselves, ladies. There are houses on which should be
placed signs, as on pest houses, and whose occupants should be labelled
"dangerous," for their tongues are more dangerous than the sting of the
adder, and they are in so-called "society." Heaven save the mark!

Woman, the most perfect of all God's work, why do you not scourge
society of scandal mongers, of snobs? Why do you not _dare_ to do what
you think and know to be right? Why will you allow yourselves to be
ruled and guided by the opinion of others? A woman's instinct is her
safest guide; if she follows it she will not err.

It is not women alone, who are tainted with snobbishness and shoddyism,
but how frequently we see it in men, generally those who have very
little brain and often in those whom the world calls self-made-men. Now
there is nothing in the world so aggressive as the same self-made-man.
The air with which he moves along, as though upon him depended the
revolution of the world on its axis, and the safety and welfare of its
inhabitants. He never allows himself, nor others, to forget the fact
that he is self-made. The laborer, who, by dint of hard work and
economy, has succeeded in making a little money; with what eagerness he
tries to gain some petty office, and in a few years his daughters will
tell us that they "belong to the old families." How much old families
have got to answer for! It would sound refreshing in this age of
snobbery, to see some one who did not consider themselves "as belonging
to one of the old families." The male snob has developed within the past
year, into the dude. By a process of evolution, which Darwin undoubtedly
could have traced, we have him before us in all his beauty. To commence,
first, he must have a little money, with that he buys a tight fitting
suit of clothes, a diamond ring, a gold headed cane, a very small hat,
carries his arms akimbo, and in all the perfection of loveliness, he
stands out, a thing apart from the rest of humanity. Perhaps in two or
three centuries, the process of evolution taking place all the time,
something may be put into the small cranium, which will be called a
"brain," but it must evolute rapidly or the sun will have cooled, and
there will be another glacial period before that event takes place.

Then we have before us the man with three hundred dollars a year income,
who apes the manner of the gentleman of leisure.

And now again we have what may be called an intellectual snob; the man
who has a fair share of brain, but not sufficient to make a name for
himself, not enough to make himself distinguished in any way. So where
honest candor would expose him, he apes the manner of clever men,
allowing himself to get decidedly "out at elbows," to wear clothes
which decidedly require brushing, seats himself in a corner as though
pondering some weighty matter, tries to look profound--when he probably
looks simply, stupid. This is intellectual snobbishness. How many people
we meet who cover their ignorance by a look of profundity.

When will people learn that snobbery is the evidence of a small mind,
and that shoddyism is the proof of a vulgar one? How long before people
will be convinced of the fact, that, education, talent, and good
breeding, are the most essential requisites for success.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

The psychologist says.

In dreams, and profound reveries we forget our surroundings, we travel
over land and seas, through sunny lands, and many persons tell us that
it is simply the mind which creates, the mind which travels. Not so; it
is the soul which journeys forth and is actually in those places, having
left the body while it wanders alone.

A person lying dangerously ill, suffering acute pain, is given a
narcotic and after a time, sleep is produced. The pain-racked body lies
there motionless as a lump of clay, pain is forgotten but the soul takes
a journey, and for a time revels in joy, flits through a shady grove, or
stops for a moment beside a running brook, scales lofty heights or
lingers in a lovely valley; the effect of the narcotic wears off, pain
returns and the pleasant vision is ended. Now the mind could not have
created these pleasant scenes, for as everyone knows, there is complete
sympathy between the body and mind, and a diseased, pain-tossed body,
would produce a diseased mind. Between sleep and death there is a
wonderful similarity. In sleep the soul wanders forth and returns to the
body, in death it journeys over the broad sea of eternity into the great
unknown. Have you ever stood at the bedside of a dying child and seen
the look of joy that passes over its face? In many instances the child
being too young to reason, too young to create for itself pleasant
scenes. Then what could have produced the ecstatic joy? I stood by the
bed of a dying child, a mere infant. The little sufferer had lain
unconscious during the day, efforts were made to arouse it, the mother
was bending over the bed anxious for one look of recognition, but the
efforts were useless, the stupor continued until suddenly, to the
surprise of the watchers, the little creature raised its hand, and
pointed upward, with a smile of perfect joy, and at that moment the soul
winged its flight.

Materialists will say the child had been told of the beauties of
another world, and at the last moment memory and reason returned, and
the beauties which had been depicted, were suddenly recalled to mind.
But in this instance the child was too young to have been told pleasing
stories; and the mind could not have created for itself a vision. Then
what was it? At the moment of dissolution the soul had flitted through
the gates of the eternal city.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

A study in sombre tints:

In one of the large cities in the wretched portion where men, women and
children hive together, there lived--or existed--a little boy, so small,
so insignificant, that the people with whom he came in contact would
scarcely have considered him worthy of mention. He was a wee specimen of
humanity with flaxen hair and blue eyes, and people who stopped to
notice him at all, saw something so strange, so pathetic in the childish
look, that they involuntarily turned to look again. He spent the days
selling matches; the nights he spent as he could, in empty boxes, on
bundles of straw, in miserable alleys, anywhere, where night overtook
him. There was no one to make enquiries, for he was alone, alone in the
great city, alone in the world. One stormy night a woman found her way
to one of the wretched tenement houses, bearing in her arms a tiny
burden. One of the inhabitants, more kindly than the rest, took her in,
gave her the only bed they had, a pallet of straw, on which she lay for
a few days, making no complaint, giving little trouble. The women saw at
a glance that she was a different order of being from themselves, that
she belonged to another world than theirs. But by what chance had she
wandered there? Questions were asked but no answers returned. She simply
asked to be left alone. In a short time she died, leaving behind the
little bundle of humanity, bequeathing to him nothing but her own
sensitive nature, the same blue eyes and flaxen hair, and the name
"Ned," nothing more. They buried her in the potter's field, and a life's
tragedy was ended. Little Ned lived among them, getting more blows than
kind words, nearly always hungry, but never complaining. If they gave
him food he ate it; if he got none, he never murmured. The rough women,
involuntarily, lowered their voices when little Ned was present, for
there was something they could never comprehend about the strange child.
They felt he was with them but not of them. He was unlike the children
in the street, never seeking, but shunning their society. After a time
he was old enough to go on the street and sell matches, and it was a
relief to the women when he was gone, for then there was no restraint,
and the little lonely waif was turned adrift. Little Ned seemed never
quite alone, for he frequently talked alone, asked questions which
seemed to have been answered--in fact lived in a world, peopled by his
own childish fancy, and passed unharmed through danger and sin, where
one, more conscious of evil, would have fallen. How unlike the world he
was in, was the one he pictured to himself. At night he crawled into
empty boxes, scarcely knowing what it was to go to sleep without feeling
hungry, but the Goddess of dreams wove golden threads through the brain
of little Ned, weaving her most brilliant colors, through the warp and
woof of his childish dreams, as if in compensation for the sombre colors
and gloom of his waking moments, and no child lying on his bed of down,
placed there by the careful hands of nurse, and receiving the mother's
good night kiss, ever had sweeter, purer dreams, than the friendless,
homeless match-seller on his bed of straw. Mothers, do you ever think
when you see your children safe in their warm beds, of the numberless
little waifs in large cities, whose resting places are pallets of straw,
whose good night kisses are the cold breath of poverty?

There was very little variety in the life of little Ned. Waking in the
morning, he would start out with the matches, selling them if he could,
if not, hunger, to which he was so accustomed, was his companion. So
from day to day it was the same story, the only variation, the only
change was in his dreams and visions; hunger could not deprive him of
that solace, the cold could not freeze the warm fancies and
imaginations. One morning in early spring little Ned awoke from his
pleasant dreams and started on his route. Passing numberless people,
some stopped to look at him carefully, for his face had such a strange
look, his eyes had such a dreamy expression, and at times he smiled to
himself as he moved along. But people did not stop long, for who in a
large, busy city has time to enquire into the life and means of living
of a little match seller. All day long, he trudged his weary way, and
towards night-fall he found himself nearer the suburbs than he had ever
been before. He passes a house which is brilliantly lighted, and strains
of gay music reach his ear. Moving to the window, which was open, he
gazes with open-eyed wonder at the scene within. It is evidently a
children's party for little fairy forms are flitting about in a merry
dance, and all is light, warmth and happiness, while outside with his
face pressed close to the window stands little Ned. His flaxen hair is
blown by the wind, his blue eyes open to their widest extent as he looks
at the gay scene, of which he forms no part. Inside, all is happiness,
outside is the gloom of night, and the desolate figure of little Ned. He
turns away with a sigh, turns away from the happiness he has never
known, into the darkness with which he is so familiar. He has grown
very hungry, having eaten nothing since noon. Seeing a woman before a
handsome carriage, he tells his story, but it falls on stony ground, the
woman has nothing to give, and leaves him standing there, while she
dries away. "O, the rarity of Christian charity!" Such are the women
whose names very often head the list of subscriptions for Christian
missions, but who turn a deaf ear to the sorrows of people at their own
door; but if they give to the poor in secret no one will know it, while
if they head a list with a large sum, they will be called good Christian
women.

Little Ned starts again, trudging bravely on, foot-sore and hungry, and
now he is in a strange part of the city, a place entirely new to him. A
large building attracts his attention, and the sounds of voices reach
his ear. Going to the door he sees a clergyman--a young man--talking
earnestly to a group of rough looking men, evidently working men. The
speaker does not stand aloof from them as though afraid to come in
contact with them, but is talking freely, and has succeeded in getting
their undivided attention, has won their hearts by his sympathy with
them, has shown them that he is like themselves--subject to human errors
and weakness, and these rough men are listening attentively, as they
would never do to lengthy discourses about things of which they knew
nothing. Here was a Christian--thank heaven there are such--who has not
placed himself on a lofty pedestal, while the hearers feel that he is
far from them both in heart and sympathy, but they feel that he is a
man like themselves; he has touched the human part of their natures, and
the rest will be easy. Little Ned listened, for the minister was
speaking of things with which the listeners were familiar; of sin, of
sorrow, of temptations, speaking cheerful words of comfort, leading them
step by step to something higher and holier than they had ever dreamed
of. At last, in language they could all understand, he told them of
another life, another world where sin and sorrow could not enter. The
child listened, and as he left the building hunger and fatigue were
forgotten. Only half comprehending what the clergyman had said, only
remembering in a confused way that he had spoken of a brighter world;
one wholly unlike this one, one in which there would be no more hunger
and cold, no more blows and harsh usage, the little fellow started in
search, resolved to find it. Surely it could not be very difficult to
find, and it must be some place outside this great city. Little Ned
started on his search, going towards the open country, toward the place
where the moon was rising, never doubting, never fearing, but that he
would succeed. Day after day he wandered on, eating berries which he
found by the wayside, and occasionally asking for something to eat. He
slept in the open air, for he knew no fear; his brain still weaving the
golden threads; still talking to invisible spirits; his face looking so
spiritual that one was not surprised that strange tongues spoke a
strange language to the lonely boy. He has wandered on until his feet
are sore and a feeling of weariness steals over him; he looks around
and finds that he is no nearer than when he started to the bright world
which the clergyman had talked about. So he resolves to turn, to go back
to the place where he had seen the minister, and ask him to show him the
way. Back he turns on his long journey. Step by step, slowly and wearily
he trudges along, his eyes have grown larger, his skin more transparent,
and each day finds him a little weaker, but he feels that he must go on.
Strange voices are speaking to him more frequently than ever, and his
dreams are filled with visions of the new world of which he has heard,
and now he has almost reached his journeys end, but it requires a great
effort for him to move, he is so foot-sore and weary, but the voices are
urging him on and at last the building is in sight. He drags himself
wearily to the door. It is night and the door is open--the place is
deserted, but he throws himself down on the floor with a sigh of
contentment. The next morning they found him with his hands clasped and
face upturned to the skies. The blue eyes were opened wide, the lips
parted in a happy smile, and poor little lonely Ned had found the
"bright world."

The Poet says:

So many abler tongues and pens than mine have chosen the St. Lawrence as
a theme on which they have written love songs, romances and legends,
that it would ill-become me to even attempt the subject. A writer, many
years ago, while paddling up the river and among the Islands, expressed
himself thus: "As the sun set below the islands the full moon rose in
all her beauty. The light evening breeze had subsided into a calm; not a
breath of air ruffled the glassy waters.

Impressed with the solemnity of the scene, I could not refrain from
wishing that here, at least, Nature might be permitted to reign
unmolested, but the solitary watch-fires of the recent settlers gave
proof that though his tenure was yet but frail, man! rapacious and
indefatigable man! was fast establishing usurpation." This was written
many years ago. What would be the astonishment of the writer, if he
could revisit the scene. Would he think it improvement or desecration?
On the islands cottages are built, and well kept lawns, sloping down to
the water, are brightened by the bright dresses of women and children,
and in some places the modern game of lawn tennis is being played, and
everything shows that Nature has not been allowed to reign unmolested.
Steamboats are plying from place to place; pleasure seekers lift their
voices to hear the sounds re-echoed from island to island, from shore to
shore, until the faint reverberation is lost among the murmuring pines.
Surely the crags and trees, the pines and poplars, are tempted to
return the echo as a protest against this invasion. If the sensibilities
were quickened to the sounds of nature, the words re-echoed would be
"leave us alone in our solitude."

The St. Lawrence does not speak to our hearts of deep tragedies, but
breathes into the soul a spirit of love.

"When Eve plucked death from the tree of life and brought tears of
sorrow upon earth, Adam was driven out into the world to mourn with her,
and taste from the bitter spring that we drink to-day."

"Then angels on their wings, bore the silent Eden to the eternal spheres
on high, and placed it in the heavens--but in passing through space,
they dropped along the way, to mark their course, some flowers from the
garden divine. These flowers of changing hues, falling into the great
river, became the Thousand Isles--the Paradise of the St. Lawrence."

It is a study to watch the different expressions and manners of the
people whom we meet. There is the woman who, on meeting makes one feel
that they have passed through some difficult surgical operation, her
look is so hard and penetrating, like the surgeon's knife. Then another
with an expression so benevolent, so charitable, that one is inclined to
turn again to catch one more glimpse of the kindly face. A little
farther on we see a young girl, with a look so joyous and happy, so
entirely free from care, that we are impelled to search for the rosy
glasses through which she views life. Time, the dispeller of all golden
hued visions, has left her mind untouched, and she retains the joyous
dreams of youth.

There is another with a look of discontent, amounting to almost misery.
The rose-colored glasses have been broken early, and she is gazing
through the murky, cloudy atmosphere of discontent. Another young girl
is passing, and look closely! her face is a study, with its varying
expression, reflecting every passing mood, then gay, now sad. The world
either hardens or breaks the heart. Which process is her heart
undergoing? In a few years, meeting her again, the face will be the page
on which the story will be written in full, either in sombre tints or
golden gleams.

Once more look at the daintily dressed woman coming down the street. She
was made for sunshine and happiness, adversity would kill her. There are
women who give one the impression that they should have all the good
gifts which the gods provide, should be carefully looked after, tenderly
cared for, they will share your joys, but no need to tell them your
sorrows, for what can they know of sorrow? they whose feet have always
travelled in smooth places. Refinement of manner and delicacy of feeling
are essential qualities for every lady; but spare us the "dainty" woman.
In hospitals there are women, educated and refined, who witness sights
daily which cause them to sicken and shudder, but they are none the less
refined, because they look upon the suffering of some poor mortal, none
the less ladies, because they assist in alleviating the distress of
their own kind. But "dainty," they can not be, thank heaven! It is the
dainty woman who, if she sees a diseased, shabbily dressed mortal in
trouble, passes quickly to the other side for fear of contamination, if
she sees a child in distress hesitates, before offering help, to see if
it is cleanly, and then the hand she offers is so nerveless, helpless
and lifeless, so weak and vacillating that perhaps it would have been
just as well had she gone on her dainty way.

Again there are people who shut themselves in an armour of selfishness,
impervious alike to gaunt poverty and hollow-eyed sorrow. From the crown
of their heads to the soles of their feet is their world, they can
neither see nor hear beyond it. The good qualities of their neighbors
are seen through the large end of a telescope, appearing very small and
a long way off, while their own are magnified until they at last look
upon themselves as being the personification of all that is good and
holy, and it is very amusing to study such a one, to watch her manner of
addressing others. From the lofty pedestal of her own conceit, she
allows some poor mortal to approach her shrine, but her manner says, "so
far shalt thou come and no farther." Of what is she afraid? Has she fear
of contamination? Is her goodness and purity of such a perishable nature
that she fears pollution? Do not fear. If you possess innate goodness
and womanly qualities you can pass through dangers unharmed, you can
walk in the midst of sin and it will not touch you, you can take the
hand of vice and it will leave no stain. From the height of your own
purity do not look with scorn upon some less fortunate mortal, do not
turn away in disgust, but examine closely, and underlying the outer
crust of wickedness and sin, you will be astonished at the amount of
good you can find, even in the most depraved. The human heart is a
strange compound, made up of love and hate, of joy and sorrow, hope and
despair, and who is able to read it? Who is able to understand the
sorrows, struggles and temptations of others, and who is competent to
take upon himself the task of judging?

Every beat of the heart gives us a glimpse, either of heaven inspired
love, or hell-born hate, of the sun-lit river of joy, or the gloom of
sorrow, the golden gleam of hope or the stagnant pool of despair. Is it
not strange that in all the workings of nature there is complete
harmony; the whispering trees, the murmuring winds, the lowing herds,
all speak a language of their own, while man is the only animal which
makes war with his kind? The love of riches, the desire of gain, the
pride of ambition takes possession of his mind to the exclusion of all
else. In battle, soldiers walk over the dead bodies of friends and foes
alike, unmoved, the only thought, the only desire is to win; the groans
of the dying are drowned in the exultant shouts of the living as they
find themselves victorious. In the battle of life there are many who, in
their desire to win at all hazards, walk over the bodies of fallen
enemies, and heed not the groans of even their friends. In all this
worry and strife, all the weariness of body and brain, how few stop to
enquire of themselves the means they are taking to attain their aim.
Some have taken a step higher by walking over the body of a brother who
has fallen by the wayside, wearied and heart sore, and if he succeeds in
reaching the top-most rung of the ladder, envious tongues and slanderous
epithets will reach him there, while if he falls he will carry with him
the sneers and taunts of his fellow men. In this vast universe there is
room for all, no need to jostle and crowd your neighbor. If he succeeds,
while you fail, it will not better your condition to slander and vilify;
if he fails while you win you will never regret having offered the hand
in good will and fellowship. Many a heart has been softened, many a
burden made lighter, by a few kind, cheerful words. There are none so
low, none so degraded, as to be beneath consideration. To take the hand
of the hardest criminal will not contaminate--vice is not contagious.

       *       *       *       *       *

Joaquin Miller says:

     Is it worth while that we jostle a brother,
       Bearing his load on the rough road of life?
     Is it worth while that we jeer at each other,
       In blackness of heart that we war to the knife?
       God pity us all in our pitiful strife.

     God pity us all as we jostle each other,
       God pardon us all for the triumph we feel,
     When a fellow goes down 'neath his load on the heather,
       Pierced to the heart by words keener than steel
       And mightier far for woe than for weal.

     Were it not well, in his brief little journey,
       On over the isthmus, down into the tide,
     We give him a fish instead of a serpent,
       Ere folding the hands to be and abide
       Forever, and aye, in dust at his side?

     Look at the roses saluting each other;
       Look at the herds all in peace on the plain,
     Man, and man only, makes war on his brother
       And laughs in his heart at his perils and pain,
       Shamed by the beasts that go down on the plain.

     It is worth while that we battle to humble
       Some poor fellow down into the dust?
     God pity us all! Time too soon will tumble
       All of us together, likes leaves in the gust,
       Humbled, indeed, down into the dust.

A woman was speaking who was dressed in soft white which clung to her
slight form, and gave one the idea of a statue; a Galatea without a
soul.

Fatalism had wound its slimy folds about her and she was unable to free
herself from its chilling embrace. There is an old German legend which
runs thus, "Vineta was an old fortified place by the sea and the capital
of an ancient nation. Her dominion extended over the neighboring coasts
and over the waves where she ruled supreme. Unparallelled in splendor
and greatness, countless treasures flowed in to her from other lands,
but pride presumption and the sins of her inhabitants brought down the
chastisement of Heaven upon her and she sank, swallowed up by the
waves." The sailors still affirm that the fortress of Vineta lies
uninjured at the bottom of the sea. They say that deep down in the
water, they catch a glimpse of towers and cupolas, hear the bells ring,
and at enchanted hours, the whole fairy city rises out of the depths and
shows itself to a favored few. The old legend tells us that the one who
has once looked on the lost Vineta, has once heard the sounds of her
bells, is pursued all his life by a longing which bears him no rest
until the enchanted city rises before him once more--or draws him down
below unto the depths. The unfortunate person who has once gazed upon
the ghastly ruins of Fatalism, knows no peace, but like the legend of
Vineta, it will drag him down to misery and destruction.

The lady was saying:

We are but clay in the hands of the potter. Nothing we do can change the
current of our lives. The hand of Fate is over all, leading us on,
whether it be for good or for ill. From the cradle to the grave, from
birth to death, there is a power ruling our destinies. In infancy our
cradles are rocked by the invisible hand of fate, in middle age we are
driven by it, in old age we are led by the same hand. I see before me a
vessel starting out under full sail. The sky is clear; the air soft and
balmy, and everything speaks of a favorable voyage, but when in
mid-ocean, the sky grows dark, the wind arises, the waves roll higher
and higher; soon the vessel gets beyond control, and the sailors find
themselves drifting towards the breakers. Efforts are redoubled, all
that human energy can do is done, but of no avail. Fate is beckoning
them onward to their doom. We see a boy starting out in life full of
youthful hopes and buoyant in health, happiness and strength. He sees in
his mind's eye a thousand chances of success. Life is before him and
there is one haven he must reach before his ambition is gratified. About
midway in his career he stops. Clouds gather and he finds he has been
driven from his course by adverse winds and tides--struggle as he may
his efforts are futile for fate has intervened. The hand of destiny has
led him, perhaps to misery, perchance to happiness, but which-ever it
proves to be, he finds there is a hand, shaping, ruling, guiding, and
that is the hand of Fate.
